Kaltura Source doc (#3446)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/kaltura-source.md

---
id: kaltura-source
title: Kaltura Source
sidebar_label: Kaltura
tags:
  - cloud-to-cloud
  - kaltura
description: Learn how to configure the Kaltura Cloud-to-Cloud source setup using the Sumo logic environment.
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import ExampleJSON from '/files/c2c/kaltura/example.json';
import MyComponentSource from '!!raw-loader!/files/c2c/kaltura/example.json';
import TerraformExample from '!!raw-loader!/files/c2c/kaltura/example.tf';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/kaltura-logo.png')} alt="icon" width="70"/>

> Kaltura is a video platform for modular systems that exposes different web-services and that may be deployed in several deployment modes to support different levels of scale. Kaltura’s platform comes in different editions, including the Kaltura-hosted SaaS edition, managed by Kaltura for single publishers and Value Added Resellers (VARs), as well as in several licensing modes of the, self-hosted, Kaltura On-Prem edition: Kaltura Community Edition, Kaltura On-Prem for Publishers and Kaltura OnPrem for OEMs. Kaltura source collects audit trail events and base entry events data and sends it to Sumo Logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kaltura is a video platform for modular systems that exposes different web services that may be deployed in several deployment modes to support different levels of scale. Kaltura’s platform comes in different editions, including the Kaltura-hosted SaaS edition, managed by Kaltura for single publishers and Value Added Resellers (VARs). Kaltura also offers several licensing modes of the self-hosted Kaltura On-Prem edition: Kaltura Community Edition, Kaltura On-Prem for Publishers, and Kaltura OnPrem for OEMs. Kaltura source collects audit trail events and base entry events data and sends it to Sumo Logic.
```

## Data collected

| Polling Interval | Data |
| :--- | :--- |
| 5 min |  [Audit Trail Events](https://developer.kaltura.com/api-docs/service/auditTrail/action/list) |
| 1 hour |  [Base Entry Events](https://developer.kaltura.com/api-docs/service/baseEntry/action/list) |

## Setup

### Vendor configuration

> In this configuration, you will create a new [Kaltura App Token](https://developer.kaltura.com/api-docs/VPaaS-API-Getting-Started/application-tokens.html) in the [Kaltura Develops Portal](https://developer.kaltura.com/api-docs/service/appToken/action/add) or via your own hosted API portal to generate a App token and App Id. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this configuration, you will create a new [Kaltura App Token](https://developer.kaltura.com/api-docs/VPaaS-API-Getting-Started/application-tokens.html) in the [Kaltura Developer Portal](https://developer.kaltura.com/api-docs/service/appToken/action/add) or via your own hosted API portal to generate an app token and app ID. 
```

#### Create a New App Token

A Kaltura App Token with specific permissions is required for Sumo Logic to access Audit Trail and Base Entry Events from Kaltura. Follow the below instructions to create a new App Token.

1. Start a [Kalutra session](https://developer.kaltura.com/api-docs/service/session/action/start) using an admin account.

> 1. Enter the following parameter in the body:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter the following parameters in the body:
```

1. Click on the **Send Request**.
1. Copy and save the Kaltura Session.
1. Add a new [App Token](https://developer.kaltura.com/api-docs/service/appToken/action/add).
1. Enter the following global parameters: 
    - **ks**. Paste the KS (Kaltura Session) copied from the previous step.
    - **format**. JSON[1] - format of the response.
1. Enter the following body appToken parameters:
    - **description**. Provide a description to identify what the Token will be used for.   
    - **hashType**. SHA1[SHA1] - Kaltura App Token Hash Type.
    - **sessionType**. ADMIN[2] - Type of Kaltura Session that will be created using the current token.
1. Click on the **Send Request**.
1. Copy and save the **App Token**, **App Token ID**, and **Partner Id** from the response.

### Source configuration

When you create an Kaltura source, you add it to a Hosted Collector. Before creating the Source, identify the Hosted Collector you want to use or create a new Hosted Collector. For instructions, see [Configure a Hosted Collector](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector).

> To configure an Kaltura source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a Kaltura source:
```

1. **Base URL**. Enter the API **Base URL**.
1. **Partner ID**. Enter the **Partner ID** collected from the [Vendor configuration](#create-a-new-app-token).
1. **App Token ID**. Enter the **App Token ID** collected from the [Vendor configuration](#create-a-new-app-token).
1. **App Token**. Enter the **App Token** collected from the [Vendor configuration](#create-a-new-app-token).
1. **Select Base Entry Types for Base Entry Logs**. You have the option to **Collect all types** or **Select types**, where you can specify the exact event categories you would like to collect from the base entry logs. Must select from the pre-defined list.
1. **Polling Interval** You have the option to select how often to poll for base entry events. Default is 24 hours.
1. When you are finished configuring the Source, click **Save**.

## JSON schema

> Sources can be configured using UTF-8 encoded JSON files with the Collector Management API. See [how to use JSON to configure Sources](/docs/send-data/use-json-configure-sources) for details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sources can be configured using UTF-8 encoded JSON files with the Collector Management API. See [Use JSON to Configure Sources](/docs/send-data/use-json-configure-sources) for details. 
```

| Parameter | Type | Value | Required | Description |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|
| schemaRef | JSON Object  | `{"type":"kaltura"}` | Yes | Define the specific schema type. |
| sourceType | String | `"Universal"` | Yes | Type of source. |
| config | JSON Object | [Configuration object](#configuration-object) | Yes | Source type specific values. |

### Configuration Object

| Parameter | Type | Required | Default | Description | Example |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|
| name | String | Yes | `null` | Type a desired name of the source. The name must be unique per Collector. This value is assigned to the [metadata](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-basics/built-in-metadata) field `_source`. | `"mySource"` |
| description | String | No | `null` | Type a description of the source. | `"Testing source"`
| category | String | No | `null` | Type a category of the source. This value is assigned to the [metadata](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-basics/built-in-metadata) field `_sourceCategory`. See [best practices](/docs/send-data/best-practices) for details. | `"mySource/test"`

> | fields | JSON Object | No | `null` | JSON map of key-value fields (metadata) to apply to the Collector or Source. Use the boolean field _siemForward to enable forwarding to SIEM.|`{"_siemForward": false, "fieldA": "valueA"}` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fields | JSON Object | No | `null` | JSON map of key-value fields (metadata) to apply to the Collector or Source. Use the boolean field `_siemForward` to enable forwarding to SIEM.|`{"_siemForward": false, "fieldA": "valueA"}` |
```
